[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neonews
today.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in this episode of the smart economy
podcast I sat down and spoke with Aaron
Kaplan the founder and co-ceo of
promethium promethium is building a
regulated Marketplace for security
tokens providing for the primary
issuance of registered qualified or
exempt Securities a venue for secondary
trading mechanisms for clearing and
settling transactions and monitoring
custody of a customer's security token
assets in this conversation Aaron and I
talk about wanting to build a regulatory
compliant exchange Way Back In 2013 how
he felt like a crazy person talking
about Securities laws during the eth Ico
where true Innovation comes from in the
blockchain space incubating the
promethium company how promethium is
poised to be the first regulatory
compliant digital asset custodian in the
U.S the path forward for the crypto
industry in the US and much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Aaron and I hope
you enjoy the conversation too
[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Aaron Kaplan the founder and co-ceo of
promethium a digital asset security
Marketplace and services provider how
are you doing today Erin hey John how
are you doing today thank you for having
me yeah I'm really excited to have this
conversation we're going to be able to
dig into kind of bigger broader
regulatory concerns and also what it's
like to build here in the U.S with a
regulatory compliant Focus but before we
dig into the cool things that you're
working on at promethium you have a
really cool interesting background in
gaming blockchain and law so could you
just kind of give us a brief history of
what your Genesis story is so I started
off in financial services then I went to
law school and I was a Securities
attorney and as an attorney I focused my
practice on the application of
distributed Ledger technology to the
Securities industry and really the
related regulatory issues myself and our
firm at the time got into the blockchain
in space in 2013 and in 2014 we wrote
our first no action letter to the SEC
basically requesting that they not take
action against us if we trade Bitcoin
through an ATS at a brokerage account
the time we were bed bug but I continued
in the space in the consumer side of
digital assets with uh our CTO Gareth
which was doing a uh consumer and
digital assets basically uh blockchain I
guess it would call consumer-based
digital assets that could be used in
different Games Etc sort of like pre-nft
days but then when the Dow report came
out in July 2017 you know basically said
that the federal Securities laws were
implicated by the activities surrounding
crypto and we started the company
shortly thereafter with the intention of
creating a public market and custodial
infrastructure to service the entire
life cycle of a digital asset from
issued issuance to trading through
clearance settlement and custody all
under the Securities laws so you tried
to start something similar to promethium
back in 2013-14 era yeah it might have
been one of the first times that that's
something that he anyone wrote in no
action letter to the SEC related to
crypto or related to I guess it was
called Bitcoin at the time because there
was before but even ethereum came out so
yeah so what's your Genesis then with
crypto it sounds like you're early very
early days when you first heard about
Bitcoin did it click for you yeah it
made sense I'm not anywhere close to a
Bitcoin maximalist but at the same time
uh the idea of using distributed
architectures in Market infrastructure
was very interesting to me and I thought
that at the time I was a little bit too
young to really be involved in the
transition from paper to electronic
trading actually way too young but
essentially you know I thought that this
was this next major you know opportunity
when it came to Market infrastructure
and securities and trading so that's
when we uh focused and started the
company yeah and so you were talking
about building a Marketplace essentially
for like in-game items are these skins
that you were were trying to sell or
these or were they like items from like
World of Warcraft what were you guys
kind of thinking the idea at the time
was that you don't actually own the
items you have in different games
whether it's you know at MMORPG or some
other like you know massively
multiplayer online type gaming universe
and really what you have is just a
license to use it but the idea was if
you could actually issue assets on chain
you could have them being used at
different games that essentially that
asset could be held by the individual
and that basically you know there could
be different uh unique attributes
attended to that asset that could be
used in multiple games kind of like yeah
so I guess when the nfts hit the scene
and you could see how they could be
using in-game items a lot of things
started clicking for you maybe no this
is before end of Tuesdays this is 2015.
yeah when the nfts did hit though were
you like yes we've been this is what
we've been thinking about for years
exactly but at the same time at least
initially a lot of the use cases for nft
were more more artistic I would say and
whereas this was more of a player rights
type you know actual ownership of actual
in-game assets I think when it's come to
blockchain gaming in general there's
still a ways to go there but a lot of
the ideas make a lot of sense let's just
wait till we get the uh you know the
killer app or the Killer game that
allows for a much larger adoption of the
concept so promethium was founded in
September 2017 the company's Genesis is
around the time I got into the crypto
space as well very curious if there's
any overlap between the insane Ico boom
that was happening and then you guys
doubling down and saying okay it's time
to start something that can operate
within the confines of what the SEC says
so if we look at it historically I think
Ico boom peaks in 2018 the dial report
is the first time is the like the first
time the SEC comments on digital assets
that basically say that the internet
mediaries and the actions and those
involved can and likely did implicate
the federal Securities laws and that had
to be compliant with it so it was always
our belief that the federal Securities
laws were the best way to regulate
digital assets and when the SEC came out
and actually said that you know more
abstractly in the Dow report in July
2017 that's what we've decided okay this
is the indication we need to really
start the company and move forward with
the idea of you know building this
trading and custodial infrastructure
before we dig more into that why did you
guys go with the name promethium it's
sort of interesting so at the time
Prometheus was the god who gave Man Fire
and the idea was Promethean would be uh
the company that gives people compliant
digital assets there's also a bit of a
nod to ethereum there as you know they
are the old G when it comes to a lot of
this stuff and then also Promethean I
think means to be excessively creative
it has another cool meaning to that as
well so it all fit but you know it just
and it flowed so we stuck with it
you guys have a background in being Wall
Street lawyers so I've recently had some
insurance entities on the show and when
I talk to them about the conferences
they go to when they go to crypto
conferences they're the suits nobody
really feels like they really like fit
in there but when they go to Insurance
conferences these projects are kind of
like the weird Cutting Edge Innovative
industry and this conservative
long-standing industry doesn't know what
to make of them so do you feel with your
background as a Wall Street lawyer and
what you guys are doing at promethium do
you also feel that you're walking in two
different worlds and don't really fit in
one or the other not so much maybe
initially we felt a little bit more like
that you know when I was explaining to
people in uh 2015 that the eat Ico was a
security and they're like no it's now we
got a letter from a law firm I was like
okay but uh but essentially you know
you're in a situation where you're like
am I the adults in the room even though
like I'm not not you know the oldest
person so since then I think that the
Paradigm has consistently moved towards
people understanding that digital assets
are just regulated financial instruments
yeah particularly in the post FTX era
when people actually understood that you
know investors can and will get harmed
if there aren't the right Protections in
place people understand that now and
there's also regulatory implications on
one on the trading side people these
sort of Institutions particularly Legacy
financial institutions if they want to
participate in the space want to
participate in a market that's fair and
orderly where they could actually like
believe in the Integrity of the trading
and beyond that there's on the custody
side one we have the pros change the
custody rules such that crypto assets
held by an advisor have to be held at a
qualified custodian which basically is a
bank or a broker dealer in this case a
special purpose broker dealer so that's
a major shift there as well where these
large institutions even if they
participate in the space or if they want
to come into the space they have a
fidget Judiciary duty to basically their
clients and they have to be compliant so
having these components that allow for
sort of the market integrity and the
compliance and the protections and
segregation and you know the actual
protection and separation of customer
funds and assets from that of the
institution I think allows the
traditional Financial space to feel more
comfortable and allows them to
understand it better and sort of jive
with it better because a lot of the time
when you had financial institutions
trying to get into the space it's sort
of apples and oranges from a compliance
standpoint because they come from a
Securities or banking world and then
they're dealing with crypto it doesn't
compute but now you have a Securities
world going into a Securities world
where everything's licensed under the
Securities laws so I think it eliminates
a lot of sort of that feeling of
potential regulatory risk versus their
you know compliance issues and we'll see
it hopefully lead to the next wave of
institutional adoption there's a lot I
want to dig into there and I have a lot
of questions primed up to expand on some
of what you said but there's an
interesting key theme that you've
brought up a few times and you were
talking about being not the oldest
person in the room one of the fun things
about the smart economy podcast I really
like to hammer home on is that these
distributed networks and the Advent of
the internet these are changing the way
in which that people work and interact
within the world so do you find that as
you become more of an expert in the
crypto space that now age isn't
necessarily a thing anymore because
anybody can become a subject matter
expert in this nascent field with just
six months of putting their head down I
would contest that statement I would say
that was it Kurzweil who says you need
to do something for ten thousand hours
to be an expert I think there's a larger
issue in society where people say oh I'm
an expert and I think that was a lot of
the problem we saw with Sam Beckman
freed I used to think to myself how is
this guy who's doesn't come from a
Securities Universe does it really come
from a you work at James but you don't
come from like a super deep Market
infrastructure background how are you
building out these products how are you
understanding it how are you integrating
it now in theory you could just be like
the Wonder kid you could be the mega
brain but the overwhelm majority of
times they're you're not you're just
another human being and you have to put
in the time and effort and get the
experience obtain the knowledge in order
to be an expert in any field
people can learn a lot quickly because
not as many people have 20 30 years not
anyone has 20 30 years of experience in
this field you still have to put in the
time and the effort if you want to get
into the space you know go read the
ethereum homestead Doc and start from
there and like play it out from there
and then start reading the white papers
understand it and like you know anyone
could buy and sell a trade but when
people understand like the validity and
the actual Innovation and the benefits
of distributed architectures and
potentially how that implicates
different regulatory you know Frameworks
that's a much more complicated task
I'm having a hard time sticking with one
subject matter because you bring up a
lot of interesting points so I guess
promethium started in 2017 and it seems
like just now in 2023 the ball is really
starting to roll the platform's gonna
launch soon you're onboarding new
institutional clients you're providing
incentives for new institutional clients
but it took six years so when you first
started promethium did you expect that
the process to do this in a regulatory
compliant manner would take six years or
what were your thought processes when
you first started a company how long did
you think it would take to get to this
point
there's a cliche when you uh when you go
to war it'll be three times as long and
ten times as expensive as you anticipate
now I don't consider this obviously like
the people use military analogies and I
don't think it's appropriate here but we
were aware that it was a large task you
know potentially boiling an ocean type
concept because it didn't exist before
you had people building systems for
trading of crypto but they weren't
compliant with how Securities had to be
treated handled processed traded
custodies and sort of the integration of
the benefits of blockchains and
distributed architectures into Market
infrastructure was a task in itself and
then also we were a little bit I don't
know if it's ahead but we were basically
maybe a little bit ahead of where
regulation was at the time but what we
did was understand how things were
playing out and basically were able to
leverage that time to optimize and build
the best products and to see how
regulation was going and to really focus
on getting to the point right now for
the first few years we primarily just
kind of working with the SEC within the
confines or did you already have
developers and you were starting to
slowly build out the platform no yeah we
yeah we developers it's a pretty
engineering heavy company because you
know you're building a lot of different
parts of Market infrastructure you're
building your own custodial technology
like you know everything you were
developed ourselves so we've
continuously grew our engineer base as
time went on but it was always a focused
effort in building out the tech because
it's a heavy lift yeah totally so I
guess maybe this is the appropriate time
can you just kind of explain like I'm
five what the whole umbrella of the
promethium Suite is there's promethium
Inc then there's promethium ATS so could
you just kind of describe all the gears
that are kind of working on the inside
sure so promethium the parent builds the
technology used by its subsidiaries
promethium ATS and promethium capital
from ethium ATS is a broker-dealer
licensed to publicly trade digital asset
Securities under the Securities laws
sounds redundant and then promethium
capital is the first special purpose
broker dealer licensed to custody
digital assets under the Securities laws
and arguably the first qualified
custodian that could compliantly custody
digital asset Securities in the United
States under the Securities laws the
idea for us overall is that you want to
service the entire life cycle of a
digital asset and the way to think about
it overall is that there's a trading
venue where customers both institutional
and Retail customers can trade digital
assets and then those digital asset
trades are settled at the custodian the
special purpose broker dealer where also
those assets are custody so basically a
trading venue a custodial uh provider on
the back end or custodian in the back
end so basically it's a market
infrastructure I'm sure you probably get
asked this all the time what makes
promethium different than coinbase we're
compliant
that's a cheeky response but that's also
like another Avenue that I want to a
threat I want to pull on like how's
promethium the first entity to do this
in the U.S and you know you have
coinbase that's been around since I
don't know 2011 and they've been trying
to kind of work with the SEC I'm not
sure what they've done behind the scenes
or whatnot but you know if indeed
promethium is the first fully regulated
custodial service and also trading
service then why isn't coinbase there
why aren't other us-based entities there
I think a lot of the Legacy crypto
financial service providers were better
served by focusing on Revenue generation
than focusing on how to achieve
compliance with how regulations are
we're moving and at a certain point when
you look at it there's significant
issues with a lot of the Legacy crypto
financial service providers because one
they don't have the proper licenses to
conduct those business activities under
the Securities laws and to the way that
their Tech stack is built it's not built
to handle how Securities are processed
traded custody it's not it doesn't
consider the federal Securities Law
implications so from that perspective
they don't have the proper licenses and
their Technologies arguably obsolete so
it's such a significant move that they
were probably better off strong from
their perspective possibly and obviously
I don't know focusing on Drawing the
Line in the Sand fighting the battle
publicly and the like as opposed to
potentially focusing on moving forward
with compliance systems and licenses so
it sounds like a bit of a chicken in the
egg situation it's a good way to put
this obviously promethium took the path
that you think is best but do you think
that if we would have had us-based
crypto companies waiting for better
guidelines more clear regulation what
not folks weren't trying to move fast
and break things do you think that we
would see more levels of adoption less
levels of adoption do you think it was
necessary for like the us-based
exchanges to do what they did so that we
have a fighting chance for the crypto
industry to kind of shine at the end of
the day no I think that there's always
been regulatory Clarity I think that
maybe people were aloof moving to obtuse
when it came to understanding that the
writing was on the wall
and beyond that you know a lot of times
the people who argue that there's a lack
of regulatory Clarity are best served by
a lack of regulatory Clarity and you
know like the only people who will win
if there was a new federal agency or a
new legislation to deal with crypto are
the crypto financial service providers
the existing ones the re and at the same
time while you know Congress hammers it
out and creates a new agency and sets it
up and now we're half a decade or a
decade later like the people who end up
holding the bag are the investors that
aren't properly protected whose assets
aren't properly custody who don't have
fair and orderly markets through which
to trade so what's best for the investor
is the application of the federal
Securities laws and even chairman
Gensler said and she I agree with this
point totally in regards to when he
testified in front of the house
Financial Services committee that his
clients are the U.S investors the people
he's responsible to aren't the financial
service providers they're the
individuals who are putting their
hard-earned dollars at risk now people
can make or lose money in the market
that's up to them but it should be as a
result of their own decisions their own
investment decisions not because they uh
kept their assets at a crypto custodian
that goes Belly Up and all of a sudden
they're a general creditor that's fair
Insight so who are the clients that
promethium is going to be serving then
are you going to be serving
institutional clients who are going to
be serving retail clients who's kind of
the scope the idea is to build a
thriving public market and that requires
being able to service both the
institutional and the retail sides on
the custodial side we're licensed to
custody for both retail and institutions
and on the trading side on the ATS side
from ATM ATS is licensed to publicly
trade digital assets obviously to build
a thriving Public Market you have to
have build up both those sides you have
to have the institutional and Retail
sides that come together so we've
focused our efforts on that
significantly and you know if you follow
what the statements are coming out of
the SEC and you know coming from
Regulators essentially if the overall
majority of digital assets are
securities they must be traded and
treated and custody under the federal
Securities laws then essentially the
current trading custodial activity in
the crypto space has to migrate to
Securities compliant ecosystems and
we're one of the few if not the only
game in town for that are you guys like
launching The Exchange soon are you
onboarding new clients right now are you
quietly servicing institutional clients
what is that kind of growth or
trajectory look like we've just received
the special purpose broker dealer
license so that's a significant step
forward for us because while you might
be licensed as an ATS until you have a
custodian that can do retail and
institutional custody the ATS really
isn't empowered so hopefully in the uh
in the coming months we'll move forward
with uh launching and basically doing
both on the custody and on the trading
side and hopefully uh this will be seen
as really a the approval and us moving
forward as a business could be seen by
the entire industry is that there's a
way forward in the United States for
crypto you hear people make the
arguments oh we're going to leave the
United States really what percentage of
your revenues generate in the United
States how are you going to leave
so like and then beyond that like the
only people who are leaving are the ones
who have to basically you know hopefully
get out in their perspective by the Skin
of Their Teeth so they but they're still
looking over their shoulder for the
regulator so like I don't see that I see
this as a clear indication that there's
a path forward for compliant crypto in
the United States I think beforehand
people could have said oh there's a path
forward but no one's approved but now
that we're medium capitals approve a
special purpose broker dealer there's a
path forward for compliant custody which
will lead to more to basically compliant
trading or digital assets all under the
Securities laws and basically uh finally
provide a solution that allows for the
full and fair disclosure the the
investor protections the fair and
orderly markets the proper segregation
of customer funds basically the
protections that are required under the
Securities laws you bring up a topic
that I wanted to discuss also this year
I've been to East Denver I also went to
consensus and a major theme is that
there is this Exodus of companies
leaving the states your thesis is that
you know if you really wanted to stick
it out and fight here where your client
base is you probably would do you think
that maybe the narrative going on right
now that there's a mass Exodus of crypto
companies in the US do you think that
just might be propagated by the fact
that there's a small pond of companies
in the U.S and that if any number leaves
it's just going to be statistically
speaking a higher percentage because
there just aren't that many I don't
think that's true I think that where is
innovation in crypto Innovation isn't on
the financial service provider side
Innovations on the project side
Innovations using distributed
architectures and blockchains for what
they're used for to basically build
applications that move Society forward
or helps Society that's where Innovation
occurs The Innovation isn't like you had
built a trading platform you're not even
compliant like that's not Innovation
like was The Innovation with FTX or was
it just a forum by which people could
trade in custody and do certain digital
asset Activities The Innovation is with
the projects so like I think you're
seeing more and more Engineers
understand distributed architectures
understand the benefits of all these you
know different blockchain sort of
Technologies and Concepts there and
it'll just be integrated in different
projects going forward it'll be just
another tool that Engineers use when
building different applications then
that makes sense I want to ask if you
think that the folks that are leaving
might have dubious intent or maybe they
just don't want to cross all their T's
and Dot all their eyes I'm not sure if
you you want to answer that or not I
would say have you read the uh sec's
complaint against xrp obviously for a
long time in the space particularly
right after or right around the Ico boom
there was a lot of Nefarious activity
and not even necessarily the fairest
people raising Capital evaluations or
issuing Assets in like unregulated or
pseudo-regulated manners and now they're
complaining when you know when those uh
what's the saying the chickens come to
roost and so like I think it's all part
of a natural process I think a lot of
the stuff what like a lot of these
statements oh Innovations leaving the
United States like all the concepts like
that are really just self-serving for
the people who are making them and you
know when you're fighting against the
regulator in the court of public opinion
I don't know if you're winning the
battle how does it feel to finally have
your special purpose broker dealer
license to have fought the good fights
to get your company to a place where
it's regulatory compliant do you feel
Justified do you feel smug or are you
like ready to hit the ground running
obviously it feels good it was a lot of
effort p people thought we were crazy in
the beginning I would bring up the
security system like what is this guy
even talking about why is this even
relevant you know like look at you like
a three heads but on the other side that
I could also say like you know we were
in the room like when they were
obviously we weren't part of the project
but you know when you could have been
bought Ethan the Ico for 19 cents a pop
at the time I thought it was a security
like who's right I don't think it
matters in that sense those guys did
really well they built awesome projects
and awesome awesome product Etc but at
the same time like it's validating there
but also you missed opportunities
because you believed in regulation from
the first place it's okay I think all
together because you uh you get to
maintain your belief in the system that
the system works and that over time
everything will work its way out and
like I think Churchill says uh the US
will get it right after making all the
wrong decisions
what kind of like inspired you or or
like is your passion for the legal
Fields because it sounds like you've
really been sticking to these beliefs
for a long time so was there something
that Drew you to get into the legal
field to begin with my father's a
Securities attorney it was his Law Firm
Guster Kaplan which incubated promethium
and basically Securities regulations so
like Securities Law just to clarify
because like I think people sort of it's
a bit of a nebulous concept so you have
the corporate transactional side and
that's one element and then you have
more broker dealer Market infrastructure
clearing firm related sort of molecular
Securities activity and that was the
side that the firm has particular
expertise at and that I've always been
more interested in so understanding
there's a book that I've tried to read a
thousand times and I have failed
miserably but it's called after the
trade is made and like basically talk
about dense reading but it basically
explains the molecular components of
what happens exactly that after a trade
is made you know from clearance
settlement to settlement finality and
everything else and the process that
occurs and I think that's very
interesting particularly because most
people just why would they care you want
to be able to go use a front-end trading
system you want to sign in you want to
have your trade made you want to make
sure that your funds are where they are
and they're properly protected et cetera
but you don't really want to focus on
how the sausage is made that was always
an opportunity I think because when you
do care about that and you're not just
necessarily on the legal side but you're
sort of entrepreneurial you can sort of
integrate that knowledge that sort of
that expertise into the product itself
and sort of innovate on that front I see
a lot of parallels with like when we
talk about Mass adoption of
cryptocurrencies with your kind of
innate understanding of just basically
how Securities and markets work nobody
really cares what consensus mechanism is
going to be operating the chain with the
internet nobody cares what TCP is when
you're using it you just want to use it
and we want to know that it'll do the
thing that we want it to do so when
promethium launches what are the assets
that are going to be offered is it going
to be Bitcoin ethereum real world assets
digital assets that's what are you guys
looking at listening first we haven't
announced anything yet but what I would
say is that chairman Gensler has
indicated that many if not all digital
assets besides for Bitcoin or Securities
and prometheium takes the same view and
uh we intend and would like to be able
to support All Digital assets that are
securities wow so it sounds like
everything
let's look at it more abstractly from a
regulatory standpoint here so like what
happened from a regulation like for the
SEC standpoint is that and obviously I
don't know this this is just my estimate
is that when they started going after
the different elements of crypto they
went after the most risky slash that
could cause the most systemic risk or
contagion components and then they
started ring fence it from there so what
does that mean first you have lending
which was like what was lending I mean
that was a lot of it was Ponzi stuff
right so like once you have lending okay
then they go staking then basically from
there you have a discussion of custody
and then after that the next part is
going to be the crypto exchanges and we
know that in the past uh you know a
month or two there's been notices that
were received by there's a Wells notice
received by coinbase and finance
received some letters from the cftc and
I think that this has all been a part to
sort of bring all these activities under
Securities regulations starting with the
riskiest components and then moving to
the parts that were the you know the
highest fruit on the tree meaning the
opposite of the lowest hanging fruit and
we've seen that process occur and this
is all part of a systemic sort of I
think calculated process of
transitioning crypto Financial Services
activities to one to an ecosystem that's
regulated under the federal Securities
laws and sort of that's what we've seen
here I actually appreciate your
perspective because when I'm on crypto
Twitter it's all doom and gloom Gary
gensler's the enemy none of this makes
sense he just wants to come after crypto
and the way you just broke down what the
different enforcement actions are I can
understand now kind of a perspective
that the SEC might be taking when it
comes to this they want to have these
enforcements in these specific areas so
that they can create guidelines and have
basically legal processes where these
have gone through the courts so I guess
you've answered this a little bit in
your previous response but are you as
negative as as about the Outlook of
crypto in the US as like your average
anon on crypto Twitter no I think that
people are saying oh the UK or EU is
leading when it comes to crypto
regulation like did anyone actually read
Micah like okay so they basically voted
on it or passed it but it's not
implemented it doesn't go into effect
until July 24. so like basically what
there's 15 months from now before it
even goes into effect they're already
talking about Micah too like nonsense
nonsense the us is going to lead the way
in crypto regulation and I think the
promethean's approval as a special
purpose broker dealer is if Promethean
capital I should say approval as a
special purpose broke dealer is a major
step in that direction essentially there
is now a compliant wait custody digital
assets under the federal Securities laws
that's a major step forward the next
step was there's a compliant way to
trade digital assets under the federal
Securities or trade crypto everything X
Bitcoin and I think that will be the
framework moving forward by how how
other nations look to regulate their
digital assets again it's such a fallacy
it's not even a fallacy it's a farce for
people who think that digital assets
aren't regulated financial instruments
how can you not see that so like if we
accept that as true and there's a
framework which was tried and tested
over 90 years which we know is meant to
protect investors to make sure Market
sellers have integrity and to make for
customers funds and securities are
properly segregated and custody it'll
just be the implementation that as a
path forward and the Doom and Gloom
maybe you could have said it before
Promethean Capital was approved a
special purpose broker dealer because
there was a framework it just there
wasn't anyone approved under that
framework but now that now that there's
a Promethean cap is approved in that
framework there is a path the U.S will
maintain its position as a lead as the
leader in global markets and any sort of
argument related to you know you know
the U.S crypto situation being horrible
is moot now so maybe to help me kind of
just like grasp it as a from a non-legal
perspective let's just say I want to
start a crypto company in the US and I
do want to register with the SEC does
this position promethium as like the
marketplace where I can launch my token
essentially so that's what I was going
to ask so what does your crypto company
do it doesn't matter but like are you
trying to issue an investment contract
and raise money by issuing a token like
that's the big thing there and I would
say you in that sense if you think about
issuance like what's issuance you have
to choose the proper regulation by which
to issue that security meaning you have
to go for a registration or exemption
you could go get a Go full registration
or you can go a reggae plus you can do a
uh 506 C you know a reg D example if
you're not doing it publicly
Etc next is okay you basically deploy
that smart contract to issue the asset
now like there's obviously compliance
considerations there but if you've done
those two components then it becomes a
question of finding a form by which you
can trade that asset which would be on
Theory on Promethean ATS and where you
could actually custody that asset
because you need to be able to custody
asset before you could trade it and that
in theory would be a Promethean Capital
so it does provide a pathway there in
terms of like any sort of crypto company
looking to issue a token that's more
about finding the proper regulation by
which to issuing under or exemption and
you know finding the proper access to
Capital by which to raise that so now
that promethium has broken the
proverbial four minute mile or five
minute mile whatever it is do you think
the floodgates are open in the U.S for
more types of entities like Prometheans
I know that you guys still have to
launch and you just obtained the special
purpose broker dealer license so there's
still some balls that need to get
started rolling but based off of the
work that you guys have done how do you
see that this is going to cut down on
future us-based exchanges launching here
I think that we're in a situation where
the development of a National Market
System for crypto or digital assets will
occur just like it did for equities
there was a mentality in comedy at one
point is when it was just the Tonight
Show that if someone else had that spot
you know then therefore you didn't have
it so it's a famine mentality whereas I
think what's going to happen here is as
more entities are approved both on the
trading and the custody side the pie
will continue to grow and it'll be like
comedy is now where like comedians go on
each other's podcasts and they basically
leverage each other to basically create
a network effect so I think that's what
will happen here and the Bible continue
to grow and larger people get involved
and you know there'll be a lot of
activity in the space and then what
we'll see is you know a development of a
National Market System for digital
assets as it is with equities I kind of
want to zoom out a little bit and talk
about some of the bigger picture things
that you've brought up already FTX
namely arguably a lot of U.S citizens
didn't get that harmed by FTX because
they weren't allowed to use the platform
so what did as ftx's spectacular
collapse do in terms of interest from
the institutional level conversations
you're having were they spooked or did
they take a step back did they realize
that SPF was a fraud what did that sort
of look like we were very always
diametrically opposed to you know that
FTX Universe because we were very
regulation Pro and we regulation under
the Securities laws and even when
entities like FTX you know said oh we're
they're about regulation like basically
they were trying to do it under uh what
was that Commodities bill they were
trying to pass or something and like it
we just never encountered you know there
wasn't a crossover there so essentially
we didn't have any indication as to what
people thought of the specifics about
you know any sort of dumpster fire that
was going on there I would think that a
lot of people were in one of these like
aha moments after not I have like
thinking to themselves how did I miss
this you know like when someone's
wearing shorts in a meeting or playing
video games or like can't accept how to
like just be a decent human being in
terms of when you're dealing with people
that's usually a red flag and
beyond that in terms of what
institutions felt as a result there was
a lot of I'd say you know a uh a glass
box of emotions and that some
institutions that all of a sudden like
they're very pro-regulation but they're
more and so like they believe in what
you're doing but more then they're also
spooked about the entire industry so
like there's a positive component
obviously people got hurt so there's no
positivity in that but like there was a
both movement to be more Pro about what
we were doing but also just a larger
Trend where people took a step back to
be like hey what's going on in the
industry as a whole and again if you
look at the industry all of the debacles
really occurred with the financial
service providers the only project that
you could say maybe was the one that
like was a sort of crossover between a
Technology Innovation and financial
service provider was limited Terror but
like if you read the uh articles about
the class action lawsuit going on there
against certain trading firms
essentially like there was no innovation
there was just manipulation
good so like that's just a scam but no I
think we're at the point now where like
institutions have come full circle and
they understand that the industry is
here to stay and they want to be
involved and they want to give their
clients compliant access to crypto
assets so we have been very pleased with
the uh engagement and reception we've
been getting recently you were talking
about red flags and you understand how
the sausage is made so what was it like
personally when you're seeing SPF going
to Congress and he's getting Winks from
Congress members after he leaves and
you're sitting here saying this doesn't
smell right what was that like for you
when you're watching SPF kind of
parading on the national Spotlight and
seemingly before the collapse he was
kind of like The Golden Child that was
going to bring crypto to the mainstream
was that infuriating were you like this
doesn't smell right we keep the head
down like what was that like for you
just keep the head down for so long
people thought we were just coming out
of left field that this was just more of
the status quo so you know you just keep
working keep moving forward if you
followed regulation it actually read
what the government was putting out in
the different elements like you know
from the SEC and like follow the court
cases and the like and the enforcement
actions it was pretty clear that the
Securities laws were gonna win the day
like again when the Dow report comes out
in July 2017 the industry's put on
notice when you you see I I believe it
was a coinbase put in an argument that
essentially oh like the government
didn't tell us that regulation applied
that's not true that's not true they
came out and said it specifically and
that's also not how regulation works
it's like oh you didn't tell me I
couldn't murder that person like it's
just it's just nonsense
so the writing was always on the wall
and for us it was just more about
keeping our head down moving forward you
know making sure to comply with the
regulations as constructed and uh
basically uh provide the ecosystem where
all that business could compliantly move
to such that you have actual proper
trading and custody of digital assets
you guys are based out of New York so
have you also collaborated with any of
like the local Regulators in the state
because from my understanding New York
was really the only state that came out
with any sort of regulation for crypto
Services back in 2014 or whatever the
dreaded bit license yes
it would be very interesting to do an
examination obviously I'm not going to
do this but it's it's an interesting
concept to determine whether New Yorkers
were more or less or possibly the same
degree injured in the debacles of 2022
as other States because if they were
more protected then that regulation
worked and if they were not less
protected or the same then that didn't
work because from a business standpoint
it made it difficult for certain
companies to have operations and
locations in New York and it deterred
people from being in New York which from
a it could be good if it protected
investors but it could also be
detrimental if it prevents good
companies from wanting to have
operations and be located in the state
that's fair a kind of like theme I've
noticed over the years is that some
blockchain projects will say we're going
to be a regulatory compliant blockchain
now from like a technology perspective
from like a base public layer one
blockchain network what does that look
like does that even mean anything to be
a regulatory compliant chain it's
literally like saying we're
democratizing Finance like you know like
what they did was they democratized the
scam and use the internet under the
guise of like Innovation and crypto to
basically you know fleece a lot of uh
basically regular retail investors Mom
and Pops I don't know what that means
essentially like from a blockchain is a
means of transferring and processing
data so like what does it mean that
you're going to be a regulatory
compliant blockchain and which
regulations are you going to be
complying with and what's jurisdictions
regulations like maybe some branding
person was like oh this sounds good but
but I I don't think that means much
right on so now we have promethium
offering the ability to provide trading
services and the necessary custody
services so how far are we from a future
where pensions have Bitcoin and ethereum
and other digital assets comprising a
large portion of or not a large portion
but just a portion of their balance
sheet how far are we from having more
kind of institutional adoption in that
way I think that we will see a uptick in
institutional adoption as promethium
through the trading from ecam ATS and
from ethium Capital Glo live as you'll
have a sort of a bridge where financial
institutions can feel that they are not
exposed from a compliance or regulatory
standpoint and they could properly
participate in the space beyond that you
know there's potential opportunities now
now that you'll have a market where you
actually could determine that has a fair
and orderly Market that has Integrity
where you can actually determine the
price of these underlying assets because
I think that's a major argument as to
why the SEC would not approve a Bitcoin
ETF or you know or ethereum ETF So in
theory it could help in that front as
well and you'll see potentially the
bridge that I referenced before helping
sort of lead to that institutional
adoption and also provide the
methodology by which these you know
these asset managers these you know the
Franklin Temple tins of the worlds the
Pension funds of the world can basically
participate in the space and feel
comfortable so I think that'll be a
major step and I think that'll be also
more products that will be able to give
people access to different means meaning
like specifically an ETF or other stuff
like that and I really think that this
is the beginning of this major
transition away from sort of wild west
crypto days to crypto Financial Services
ecosystems regulated on Securities laws
yeah that would be huge if promethium
was used for determining the spot price
for Bitcoin because then That's the
basis for the ETF and all these other
Financial products that you're talking
about so are we getting there is without
kind of propping yourself up too much
and patting yourself too much on the
back is what promethium is going to
offer ultimately the first step towards
the approval of the financialization of
digital assets and integration into
institutions and traditional financial
institutions obviously we have a long
way to go but I think it's a significant
milestone in the maturity or the
maturation of the industry on the
financial services side and I think that
is super important because one of the
big issues was that retail investors
justifiably so lost confidence in the
space and that was because of all the
shenanigans that went on the sort of you
know these absurd business practices
lack of risk management like things that
you would just would not fly anywhere
and what the industry needs or it has
been working on since then is
reestablishing that confidence and the
best way to do that is to have a
compliant ecosystem for trading and
custody of digital assets under the
Securities laws that are tried and
tested protect investors you know ensure
Fair norly markets basically have rules
as to how you actually have to custody
and segregate customer assets from that
of the institution basically all these
Concepts that have always made sense
always apply from the beginning it's
just the industry argued that uh it was
Innovation yeah
I guess the SEC is a bogey man because
you have this incendiary figure and Gary
Gensler who is arguably poking back at
the crypto community
remove Gary from the equation would the
SEC still have been kind of taking these
actions and taking these steps
regardless as an entity without
necessarily like somebody at the
Forefront kind of like poking and
laughing were these processes that were
already rolling before Gary was in
office oh yeah I mean before chairman
gunsler you had chairman Clayton and he
put out the special purpose broker
dealer release in I believe it's
December 2020 there was also the
three-step release when it came to
trading there was a lot of comments like
comments that came out of the SEC from a
long time ago I remember and this is
like sometime in 2016 2017 where they're
talking about tokens versus uh washing
machine coins right and then there was a
reference because people don't speculate
on their laundromat coins they speculate
on these tokens and that's why they're
Securities there was clear indications
for a long time if you follow the SEC
statements and like you actually were on
top of it as opposed to believing what
you wanted to the there was clear clear
indication and communication and
continuous evolution of this whole fact
and concept that digital assets are
likely Securities and regulated under
the Securities laws cool well kind of
wrapping up I know that you probably
can't answer this but I'm going to ask
anyways do you have like some big brand
names that are going to be splashy names
when the exchange launches that you've
already kind of identified as partners
or any institutions that are going to be
proudly trading on promethium we've been
very uh pleased and and feel very
positive when it comes to the engagement
that we've received from the trading and
the financial Community I also think
that the crypto Community understands
that the overwhelm majority of digital
assets or Securities and there needs to
be ecosystems like promethium is
building in order for it to move forward
so I think that it'll be a positive
thing for us are there any incentives
for on boarding institutional clients
that if any of our listeners are
institutional clients and they're
interested in speaking with you are
there any incentives for them yeah
there's a liquidity provider program
there's other incentives that obviously
uh could be discussed more offline
what's the best way to get in contact
with you to keep up with you to keep up
with promethium yeah I would say uh
check out our LinkedIn I'm not the
biggest personal Twitter person but
um check out our LinkedIn and uh
hopefully we'll be able to uh really
deliver on everything we've been trying
to do for a long time and basically
provide an ecosystem where where the the
real winner is the investor who actually
gets to be protected who gets to make
their own investment decisions and
doesn't have their firm trading against
their orders and uh you know basically
does everything that you would
anticipate occurring in a proper
financial ecosystem Aaron thank you so
much for spending an hour with us it's
got to be very busy days over where
you're at right now prior to this
conversation I didn't necessarily grasp
the importance of the special purpose
broker-dealer license and what this
represents for promethium and for just
general crypto companies moving forward
in the U.S amongst a lot of Doom and
Gloom right now the conversation we just
had is a little bit of a light at the
end of the tunnel so I really appreciate
you breaking down what you guys are
working on helping me better understand
the importance of what you guys have
been working on for the past six years
and I'm really excited to see the
floodgates opening and kind of what this
is going to represent in the Years
moving forward it sounds like you guys
were the first ones to open the door so
I can't wait to see five years from now
how the spaces change in a positive way
thank you for the opportunity Dylan and
uh appreciate your time cheers have a
good one
what did you think of that conversation
there was a point where I was reminded
of the scene in Zoolander when mugatu
freaks out and shouts at the top of his
lungs about how he feels like he's
taking crazy pills because no one
notices that zoolander's looks are all
the same Aaron has been calling digital
assets security since the eth Ico and
started the long and winding process of
building a compliant exchange nearly six
years ago sometimes I wonder if he felt
like he was taking crazy pills it was
interesting to hear Aaron's perspective
on how the SEC might be going about
transitioning crypto into existing
Securities laws by breaking down the
type of SEC enforcements over the past
few years he noted that the SEC first
went after lending then staking and then
custody and what he thinks might be the
next segment of the crypto space that
the SEC goes after which will be
exchanges lastly I think it'll be really
interesting to see which coin promethium
lists once the platform goes live
especially since they plan to list
everything that is a security and the
SEC currently states that everything but
Bitcoin is a security suffice to say I
think I'm a little excited to see what
the first regulatory compliant Exchange
in the US can do for the narrative for
crypto here in the states moving forward
and it's something I certainly look
forward to keeping up with on that note
I want to thank you so much for taking
the time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process we appreciate
you and look forward to catching you
next time
thank you
[Music]